.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BURN 1 "Apr 4, 2013"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
burn \- create iso image, burn it to a CD/DVD/BD, compare burned data with the
files iso were made from, catalog burned media.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBburn\fR
.RI "[ options ] <disc label> <file>..."

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBburn\fR creates iso image, burns and catalogs it using genisoimage(1),
wodim(1)/growisofs(1) and mkat(1) respectively.

Use \fB-n\fR option to see how much space your files take. \fB-s, -c\fR options
control burn speed and whether the disc needs to be blanked (in case of a RW
disc) by passing a parameter to the burning program. \fB-r\fR option allows to
pass any option through to the burning program (e.g. -dummy for wodim).  To
check whether the files you are burning are in the mkat db, use \fB--dbcheck\fR
option, if some of them are, it will ask you if you still want to burn the disc.

By default, first an image file will be created (takes some time), and then,
after the image is ready, it is passed as an argument to a burning program. It's
also possible to burn image while it's being created by piping image to a
burning program. Use \fB-p, --pipe\fR option to do that. It's faster to burn in
that way, however, if somebody deletes files you're about to burn, you will end
up with a media without those files.

If you don't want to catalog your discs with mkat(1), use \fB--nocat\fR
option.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-n
print estimated iso image size, how much more can be added to the image or
should be subtracted from to fit
.TP
.B \-s \fI<SPEED>\fR
set burning speed
.TP
.B \-c
blank rewritable media
.TP
.B \-o
overburn
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-pipe
pipe image to a burning program as it's being created
.TP
.B \-r \fI<CDREC_OPTS>\fR
pass parameters to burning program
.TP
.B \-i \fI<MKIMG_OPTS>\fR
pass parameters to image making program
.TP
.B \-m \fI<MKAT_OPTS>\fR
pass parameters to mkat
.TP
.B \-\-media
specify media type (one of cd, dvd, bd, bd50). If not defined, media size is
taken from the media in the drive. For Blu-ray, 256Mb is always devoted for
defect management.
.TP
.B \-\-noburn
don't burn disc
.TP
.B \-\-noimg
don't create image, useful when you already have an image ready. Label and files
need not be specified.
.TP
.B \-\-nocat
skip catalog
.TP
.B \-\-nocheck
skip afterburn check
.TP
.B \-\-filecheck
compare burned files to originals, exit
.TP
.B \-\-dbcheck
check if the files are already in mkat db (i.e. you have them burned
already)
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-yes
don't ask questions, just burn it
.TP
.B \-\-simulate
print commands that would be executed, implies --debug
.TP
.B \-\-debug
so you want to know how it works?
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
burn -n 'Fruits Basket 10-13' Fruits\\ Basket\\ \\(1[0-3]*
Find out how much space files would take
.TP
burn -s4 -c --nocat 'Fruits Basket 10-13' Fruits\\ Basket\\ \\(1[0-3]*
Burn a RW disc with 4x max speed, blanking it since it already has data on it,
skip catalog since it's a RW (you don't expect data there to last).
.TP
burn -r'-dummy' 'Fruits Basket 10-13' Fruits\\ Basket\\ \\(1[0-3]*
Burn a CD-R in dummy mode

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/mkatrc, ~/.mkatrc
config files where $CD, $DRIVE, etc. are defined

.SH SEE ALSO
\fImkat(1), mkatrc(5)\fR

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2004, 2005, 2013 Dmitry Maksyoma <ledestin@gmail.com>.
.br
Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.
