.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BURN-AUDIO 1 "May 31, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
burn-audio \- burn audio CD from wav files, compare a CD with wav files

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBburn-audio\fR
.RI "[-s] <wav file>..."

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBburn-audio\fR uses cdrecord(1) to burn audio CD from wav files. The
burned CD can be checked against original wav files, which is done by 
ripping the CD with cdparanoia(1) and comparing original and just ripped 
wav files. If you just want to compare CD with wav files, use \fB-s\fR 
option. Note that the ripped files are placed into $TMP (see cdlistrc(5)).

A CD is also catalogued by calling cdlist-audio(1).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s
skip burn, only compare a CD with wav files
.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of options.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/cdlistrc, ~/.cdlistrc
config files where $TMP, $CD, $DRIVE, etc. are defined

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcdlist-audio(1), cdlistrc(5)\fR

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Dmitry Maksyoma <ledestin@amur.ru>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
