.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BURN-AUDIO 1 "Mar 19, 2013"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
burna \- burn audio CD from wav files, compare a CD with wav files

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBburna\fR
.RI "[-s] <wav file>..."

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBburna\fR uses wodim(1) to burn audio CD from wav files. The
burned CD can be checked against original wav files, which is done by 
ripping the CD with cdparanoia(1) and comparing original and just ripped 
wav files. If you just want to compare CD with wav files, use \fB-s\fR 
option. Note that the ripped files are placed into $TMP (see mkatrc(5)).

A CD is also catalogued by calling mkata(1).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s
skip burn, only compare a CD with wav files
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/mkatrc, ~/.mkatrc
config files where $TMP, $CD, $DRIVE, etc. are defined

.SH SEE ALSO
\fImkata(1), mkatrc(5)\fR

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2004, 2005 Dmitry Maksyoma <ledestin@gmail.com>.
.br
Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.
