.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH MKAT 1 "Mar 2, 2011"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
mkat \- catalog a disc or filesystem path, then search database by file name, tags or md5 sum

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkat\fR
[ options ]

\fBmkat\fR
-t <tag[,tag]...> -w <file>...

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmkat\fR can catalog a disc or a filesystem directory. It
creates a .list file in $LISTDIR which contans data about files you want
cataloged.

The .list file name is named after the disc label or NO_LABEL if label 
could not be obtained
if \fBmkat\fR is called without \fB-p\fR option, or path with the leading '/'
stripped and the rest of '/'s replaced with '.'s if \fB-p\fR option is used.
The disc label is obtained from $DRIVE, which should be a cdrom device
(see \fImkatrc(5)\fR).
If you catalog a disc, its data should reside at $CD, if you catalog a
directory, path you specified with \fB-p\fR option is used.

\fB-t\fR (tag) option can be given to assign tags, which later
can be used in search with \fB-S\fR (tags only) option or ignored
with \fB-T, -s\fR (no tags) option. The 'cd' tag will be automatically added
when cataloging a CD and 'filesystem' tag will be added when cataloging a
filesystem path. If you forgot to tag something, use \fB-w\fR option, but you
need to specify files you want to tag.

A .list file contains CD label or filesystem path as the first line,
may contain "tags line"
as the second line, the consecutive lines contain directories and files. 
A tag line has the following format \fBtags: tag1 tag2 tagN\fR.
A file entry looks like this: \fBfilename:size:md5\fR.
Those files can be searched with a regexp (if \fB-E\fR is used) or a literal
string (default) using \fB-s\fR or \fB-S\fR option.
Also, mkat can obtain a md5 sum of an existing file and grep for that 
sum (\fB-m\fR option).

\fBmkat\fR is automatically called from \fBburn\fR, but if you already 
have a lot of CDs, \fBmkat -y\fR will process a CD, eject it and wait 
for keyboard input (Enter), process next CD, and so on.

If a file with the same name as the CD label already exists in $LISTDIR,
\fB-f\fR option can be used to overwrite the file.

.SH OPTIONS
When an option is specified several times then either the last 
specified value is used (think mkat -p) or both are
used (as in \fBmkat -S movie -S comedy\fR). If an option parameter is described as
a comma-separated list (as in \fB-S \fI<tag[,tag]...>\fR), then
parameters can be specified comma-separated (as in \fBmkat -S movie,comedy\fR).

.TP
.B \-f
overwrite list file
.TP
.B \-p \fI<path>\fR
catalog path instead of a CD. List file name will be path with the leading \
'/' removed and the rest of '/'s replaced with '.'
.TP
.B \-t \fI<tag[,tag]...>\fR
assign tags to the .list file
.TP
.B \-s \fI<string>\fR
search the database. \fI<string>\fR is taken as a literal string unless
\fB-E\fR option is given
.TP
.B \-\-seq-id
add sequential ID tag for the media when cataloguing. The tag is in `#<NUMBER>'
format. NUMBER is determined by searching catalog for the biggest `#<NUMBER>'
tag and incrementing it by 1. If no such tags exist yet, NUMBER of 1 is used.
.TP
.B \-E
use extended regular when searching db (default is literal search)
.TP
.B \-T
don't search tags with -s
.TP
.B \-S \fI<tag[,tag]...>\fR
search within tags only
.TP
.B \-a
show what tags can be searched with -S
.TP
.B \-w \fI<file[,file]...>\fR
write tags: line to existing files (use with -t)
.TP
.B \-m \fI<file>\fR
make md5 sum and search for it in the db
.TP
.B \-\-md5dir\fI<dir>\fR
print files in the dir recursively that aren't in the db (using mkat -m).
.TP
.B \-y
cycle { mkat; eject; }
.TP
.B \-q
be quiet
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Print debug output
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.

.SH EXIT CODES
When given \fB-s\fR, \fB-S\fR or \fB-m\fR option mkat exit code is zero if something was
found and nonzero otherwise. Actually, exit code returned by grep(1) is
returned here.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
mkat -t anime,drama,comedy,school
Catalog a Fruits Basket CD with the specified tags
.TP
mkat -p ~/music/ -t music,western
Catalog a filesystem path
.TP
mkat -E -s 'Fruits Basket 1.+'
Search list files contents using grep regular expression
.TP
mkat -s 'Fruits Basket' -s 01
Search using 2 -s options, only string containing both `Fruits Basket' and
`01' will be shown
.TP
mkat -S music
Find .list files with the 'music' tag
.TP
mkat -s music -T
Find .list files containing 'music', exclude tags from search
.TP
mkat -m unknown_stuff.avi
Find out if the specified file exists in the catalog using its md5 sum
.TP
mkat -t anime,drama,school -w ~/.mkat/Fruits\ Basket*
Retag the specified list files

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/mkatrc, ~/.mkatrc
config files where $CD, $DRIVE, etc. are defined

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIburn(1), mkatrc(5)\fR

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2004, 2005, 2011 Dmitry Maksyoma <ledestin@gmail.com>.
.br
Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.
